The Project Gutenberg eBook of Hints on news reporting
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Hints on news reporting

Author: Murray Sheehan

Release date: December 4, 2025 [eBook #77396]

Language: English

Original publication: Girard: Haldeman-Julius Company, 1922

Credits: Carol Brown, Tim Miller and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from scanned images of public domain material from the Google Books project.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HINTS ON NEWS REPORTING ***




                     TEN CENT POCKET SERIES NO. 342
                      Edited by E. Haldeman-Julius

                             Hints on News
                               Reporting

                             Murray Sheehan


                        HALDEMAN-JULIUS COMPANY
                             GIRARD, KANSAS




                            Copyright, 1922,
                         Haldeman-Julius Company



                         HINTS ON NEWS REPORTING




                         HINTS ON NEWS-REPORTING


                              WHAT IS NEWS?

“To be explicit, easy, free, and very plain,” was the ideal set down
for himself by Daniel Defoe in his news-writing more than two hundred
years ago. And despite its age the advice could hardly be bettered for
a newspaper man of today. For after all, what a modern reader of the
news-column wants is a detailed account of some happening, written in
such a style that it can be easily and rapidly read without thought to
its grammar or construction, and can be easily understood throughout.
That Defoe was master of such a style in his own writing will be
granted by anyone who has read his “Robinson Crusoe”--and who has
not!--a style which can be understood by a child of seven or eight and
yet which gives delight to grown-ups. No wonder he was one of the most
popular journalists of his own time.

When a man buys a newspaper on a street corner, what he wants is
manifestly a paper that will give him the news in an easily read
account. “News,” for him, may be something far different from what you
or I would call by that name, and perhaps he picks out a paper which
would furnish me with very little news indeed, very little, that is,
of the world’s current happenings which would interest me. He may be
devotedly concerned with the latest prices of dress-goods and men’s
clothing, or the most recent gossip from the ring-side, whereas it
may be that for me neither of these subjects contains the slightest
interest. Perhaps when you approach a news-stand, what your eye
naturally goes looking for is a sheet that gives much space to stock
quotations or political news or notes on recent books. What Mrs. Brown
always wants is a certain newspaper that devotes columns to the naming
of prominent people who have dined or danced, and to the detailed
description of the clothes they wore. Miss Black buys a certain evening
paper because the back page always has a lot of interesting little
stories drawn from daily life in the streets about her, little things
that do not amount to much in themselves but are written up in an
interesting way. And the fact that thousands and even millions of other
Americans are interested in the same things as the individuals I have
mentioned, has made American newspapers what they are, for better or
worse. It has made them, that is, a sort of glorified crazy-quilt of
the varied interests of their readers, with the individual news-patches
all worked out in a style which is at once detailed, loose, free, and
very easily comprehended.

The central key, then, to the problem of why we have so many newspapers
in New York, for instance, and why tens of thousands buy this paper
and other tens of thousands buy that one, is, of course, simply one
of interest. One man buys the “Times” regularly because he knows that
in it he will find the particular type of news that he is interested
in, and that it will be treated in a manner which brings out most
forcefully that interest. Another man will want only the Brooklyn
“Eagle,” as it will do the same for him. Another will choose the
“American,” and so on.

And the central key to all news-writing, one might say, is simply this
same matter of interest. If news is something in timely happenings
which interests the people, then news-writing is perhaps best defined
as the method of presenting the facts of current happenings in an
interesting manner. News-writing is, or should be, one form of being
interesting.

When a man picks up his newspaper he wants, as we said before, the
news. For that reason we have, in American newspapers particularly,
developed the headline to a high efficiency in advertising the contents
of the paper. This side of the question does not concern us here,
however, as headlines are ordinarily not written by the reporter at
all, but by specially trained men on the copy-desk. We are interested
only in the technique of the news-story proper.

Now when we sit down with a novel or a short story, what many want is
suspense. We do not want to know what the end will be. We want that
to come to us as a perfect surprise, and the more perfect our wonder
at the end of the tale, the better we feel it is. We like to be kept
guessing about the outcome of the narrative. If we can predict it we
generally call the writer a failure.

The beginning of a news-story is diametrically opposed to this
procedure. What a man wants when he begins to read a news-story is
not suspense, but news. He is interested in the news, and he wants it
given to him as soon and as quickly as possible. He wants to be as
fully informed of the news in as short a time as possible, with all
the essential facts at the beginning. Then if he wants to go on with
the story he is at liberty to do so. If he is interested in the minor
details he can continue down the column. But what he wants at the very
beginning of his story is the main facts, and this is responsible for
what we call in America the “lead of the story.”


                           WHAT IS THE “LEAD”?

The lead of a news-story is really very simple in its construction,
as far as the main outlines are concerned. In actual daily practice
you will find that the working out of the same principles results in
an infinity of effects. But fully ninety-five per cent of the stories
in American newspapers are begun on the same principle, that of the
“straight news lead.”

For the basis of any news-story will, upon analysis, always turn out
to be that somebody or something has done something or is now doing
something, or is going to do something. Either Mrs. Smith has just
died, or Mr. Williams is now building an addition on his store, or
the Red Men will tomorrow stage a monster parade. Fox’s mill burned
down last night, or plans are now going forward for the new freight
depot, or the janitors’ strike begins tomorrow. WHO did WHAT can be
set down as the first two elements which will certainly go to make up
the “lead,” as without them there would be no news at all. In this
connection, also, we always give ample identification, so there can be
no mistake as to WHO is meant, which John Jones it is. If necessary we
give his age, address, profession, etc., so that in a large city he can
be identified.

But readers of newspapers are also interested in the locality in which
the action took place, and in the time at which it occurred. If John
Jones killed his wife, they want to know where it happened and at what
hour. Did he do it at home or abroad? We give the home address of
the Joneses in either case, and if the murder occurred elsewhere we
give that address likewise. And at what time did he do it, demand the
readers, at morning, noon, or night? If lightning destroyed the chimney
of the Miller factory, readers want to know when, and they like also to
have given the location of the factory, so that they can check up on
whether it is the Miller factory that they know, or whether it is in
the vicinity where live any of their acquaintances, or near where they
do business, who have thus been in danger. These two elements of time
and place, the WHEN and the WHERE are considered essential to the lead
of a news-story, as well as the agent and his action. So that we might
say the WHO, WHAT, WHERE, and WHEN were absolute essentials to the
lead. They are always included in a straight news-lead, and no story is
considered complete without them.

There is one more element almost in the same category, and it is
sometimes included to make what are known as the five essentials. When
Mr. Jones killed his wife at their home, 14 East Ninth street, this
morning, most people want to know HOW and WHY he did it. Was it with
an axe or a revolver or Othello-wise with a pillow? Was he jealous or
insane or did he mistake her for a burglar? When the lightning struck
the Miller factory, we want to know how or why it did so. We want to
know if it was the chimney or one of the new tower structures. How
did it strike? What route did it follow? Was it because the mill had
no lightning-rods? This element of the lead is not always included,
however, unless the HOW or the WHY are especially interesting.

These five, then, can be set down as the framework of what is known
as a straight news-story, and you can find the theory in practice by
picking up any copy of any one of the myriad newspapers of the United
States. The statement will not be true of most foreign news-sheets,
as they follow a different technique altogether. This fact accounts
for the “deadness” that many Americans find in English and Continental
papers. They develop their news-stories in a slower fashion. But read
over any ordinary edition of any American paper, and you will find that
fully ninety-five percent of the stories have the five essentials at
the very front tip of the account. The other five percent belong to
another class of stories which will be considered later.


                         WHAT INTERESTS PEOPLE?

Variety, however, would be largely an absent quantity if all
news-stories started out with a bald setting down of all five of the
essentials “onetwothreefourfive, just like that,” as E. E. Cummings has
said. And variety there must be. The American newspaper is in a keen
competition against other newspapers and must attract its readers. It
must interest them, display its news in an attractive fashion, do it
better than the other fellow, display its wares in so interesting a
way that people will buy here rather than from the other fellow. This
is particularly applicable, of course, to cities and towns having two
or more newspapers, but it is also true of the little places that have
only one daily or perhaps only a weekly. In these cases, if the sheet
is written in an unattractive fashion, with the news badly presented,
there is great likelihood that large numbers of the people will feel
that “they can get along without the paper,” and away goes the list
of subscribers on the downward “path to the everlasting bonfire.” On
the other hand, if the news is brightly set down, with variety and
interest, there will be scores of people who will take the paper that
otherwise would not, and even if they move away from the locality they
will wish to continue receiving it.

What is it that must be added to the five essentials in order to liven
them and give them interest and variety for the readers? The answer
lies in a consideration of what it is that attracts the interest
of readers, what it is that readers are interested in. And here we
come back to the very first thing we talked about in considering the
news-writing of American newspapers--INTEREST.

People are interested in scores of things, as you will find out if you
scan the pages of a large metropolitan daily. You might almost say that
there is nothing in which they are not interested, if the matter is
presented to them properly. And the “properly” part of the preceding
sentence is what we must now consider.

In the first place, people are interested in anything which will make
a DIFFERENCE TO THEMSELVES. If I am a grown man and I see a train
approaching, I am not under ordinary circumstances vitally interested.
If I am on the track, however, I decidedly am interested, because
that train then may perhaps make a difference to me. Or if some of my
family are on that train, as I happen to know, and we have arranged
to wave at this point, then also I am interested, because, again the
thing makes a difference, however slight, to me. Or if I am interested
in mechanics and I suddenly notice that some improvement in machinery
has been built into this engine, I prick up my ears and am interested,
for here is something that matters to me. Or if there is a wreck or an
accident to that engine, and particularly if there are human beings
injured or killed, then again I am interested, because, after all, such
a thing might some day happen to me or mine, and I am thus touched in
my deepest interest--my interest in myself.

Thus, if any happening in the day’s news can be shown to be vitally
connected with the WELFARE of the readers, that happening will make
good news, and will stir the interest of the readers. It is undoubtedly
on this basis that we are all interested in political news, in
questions of taxes and tariffs, civic improvements, international
relations, wars, scientific discoveries, etc. We are interested in them
only to the extent, generally, that they are seen to touch our daily
lives, to the extent that they make a difference to us. If the Grand
Lama of Thibet makes a new law about transportation in his realm, I am
not interested, because it makes no difference to me, so far as I know.
But if I am told that as a result of this, my wife can have silk more
cheaply, or tea will be twenty-five cents dearer, I sit up and take
notice, and the thing has become news indeed. Before, the thing was
only a happening on the other side of the world, and touched me not.
But now it has been brought into my field of concern, by touching my
interests, and I am wide awake to the recent developments over there.

SPORTS are, of course, another field in which the American public shows
interest, and almost any information from its activities will be given
space on the sports page of the papers and be read with avidity. Even
quoits or horseshoes are sometimes featured on the sports page, and the
big games of baseball or football actually become sometimes the most
prominent story on the first page of the paper, driving international
and national news to subordinate positions and sometimes to inner pages.

HOBBIES offer another opportunity to catch the reader’s attention with
matters that interest him. Chess and bridge would come under this head,
I suppose. Radio and wireless, new wrinkles in diving and swimming,
recent developments in crochet stitches or the making of strawberry
preserves, etc., can properly be included here, perhaps, as news of
all these recent developments will make real news. In the spring when
tens of thousands of people will be interested in gardens, any and all
information about growing things will have interest for readers, and
hence will constitute, for them, news. Some papers can even, according
to the nature of their subscription-list, offer recent developments
of art, literature, music, architecture, etc., as news, and have it
welcomed. News about new plays and motion picture plays, if they are to
run for any length of time, is welcomed in the form of criticisms, pro
or con, of the first night’s performance.

All the interests thus far considered have been more or less, as I
said, based on our own welfare and the relation which we could see
between the new occurrence and its power to influence our daily lives.
Some of them have stepped over into the next division to be taken up.
When the great annual Harvard-Yale football game comes off, it is
looked upon as the classic game of the season. When the final series
of baseball games is played, it is for the championship of the world.
Even the most sluggish of imaginations will take some interest in these
events, however slight their ordinary interest in these sports may be.

This brings us to interest in the PROMINENT. There is something about
anybody or anything that has reached a supreme position in this world,
which makes us all stop and look in that direction with interest. If
the highest mountain in the world does something, we are interested.
If the greatest murderer in history has fried eggs this morning for
breakfast, we are interested. If the richest man in the world plays
golf, we want to see pictures of him in the act. If the manufacturer
of the greatest number of automobiles in the world gives a quarter to
a little girl, we stop and read all about it, or gaze with interest
on a photograph of the perfectly ordinary quarter lying in her quite
unusual hand. When a great tenor dies, we have stories about old ladies
who suddenly remember that he was their nephew. Just as a handkerchief
on which Napoleon once blew his august nose is still a center of
interest in the Invalides museum in Paris, so the tiniest fragment of
information about the greatest this or the greatest that interests us,
and thus becomes news. Big numbers impress us the same way. We seem to
be carried away by good round numbers. “Thirty thousand eggs” or “Four
hundred million toothpicks” seem to wield a hypnotic fascination on us
because of their resounding figures, and we are interested.

On the other hand, we are interested also in people and things known
only locally, or at any rate, interesting to us only because KNOWN
LOCALLY. If the carpenter next door dropped his hammer on his foot
and was laid up for two days, we might run a little paragraph on the
occurrence in the local paper. But if he lived ten miles away and was
not known locally we should hardly be interested in his accident, and
the story would never appear. If Amy White takes part in a college
play at the state university, we do not give a rap, unless she happens
to come from our home town, in which case we are interested and the
thing becomes news. If I live in St. Louis, I am interested in local
drawings, which will not appear at all in Chicago papers.

There is one field, however, in which we are all interested, no matter
where the thing happens. And that is the UNUSUAL. We are all wildly
romantic when it comes to this matter of the out-of-the-ordinary. So
much is this the case, that the life of a reporter becomes one long
quest for the most unusual feature in every story he is called upon
to write, as offering the best possible way of catching the interest
of his readers. He lives in one long flurry of the exceptional--which
perhaps is one of the causes of his astonishing grip on the secret of
youth, even into his last years.

This quest of the unusual takes all possible forms. If a thousand men
go up a flight of stairs successfully, they do not make news, but the
thousand and first man, who trips and breaks his leg while carrying
home a crutch for his wife who last week broke her leg on the very same
step, makes news. He has done something out of the ordinary run of
events. Ten thousand babies daily lead healthy lives in the country,
and they are therefore not news. But the baby who today swallows an
open safety pin and allows his mother successfully to remove it with a
button hook will very likely be heralded all over the lands as news.
Hosts of happenings are published daily in the papers of America which
in themselves are unimportant, trivial. But because they are out of
the ordinary, have the mark of the unusual on them, they are published
on the front pages of otherwise sedate news-sheets. The fact may be
telegraphed all over the country that such and such a farmer in some
little unknown place in Kentucky chopped off the end of his thumb
accidentally and a rooster ate it. Countless very high-priced linotype
operators will set it into type, and other highly paid workers will
put the fact on costly white paper, which will then be transported
in divers expensive manners to the readers--and all because of their
seemingly ineradicable interest in the new and the strange.

Still another unfailing interest is that in CHILDREN. A news-story
which otherwise would amount to very little will take on new value if
there is a child in it who can be written up, or “featured,” as the
newspaper reporter says. A fire which ordinarily could be adequately
covered in a hundred words, and which would only get a number four
headline will call for three or four hundred words and will get a
number two head if some man rushed back to save a child, or if a child
discovered the fire.

The same way with ANIMALS. The public is interested in any animal
story, wild or tame, and as in the previous story, if a cat or a canary
or a dog is rescued out of a fire or gives warning to the inhabitants,
the story immediately becomes for news purposes much more valuable, and
the animal interest is generally played up in writing such a story. So
much is this the case, that reporters in cities possessing a zoological
garden can well afford to make almost a daily visit to the place. The
fact that a lion cub needs a kitten for a playmate so that he won’t be
lonesome, or that the beavers are building a new nest seems to wield a
magic influence over readers.


                              HOW TO BEGIN

The thing to do, then, upon sitting down to write a news story, is to
ask yourself, “What is the most interesting thing about this story?” If
the principal figure is a man or a woman very prominent in the world or
extremely well-known to your readers, the problem is very likely solved
immediately, since the name alone is sufficient to arouse interest and
catch the reader’s attention. Otherwise, some other element of the
story is taken as the most interesting, and in this connection you must
remember the list of interests which has just been enumerated. Go over
any copy of even a moderately well-written newspaper, and you will note
the comparatively small range of interests to which reporters feel that
they can safely appeal in beginning most of their stories. Of course
the interest in the unusual gives an almost infinite field of adventure
in writing, and the trick then becomes one of getting the strange set
of circumstances most quickly and most effectively before the readers.

When it has been determined what the most interesting thing is in the
story, this fact must come first, in as vivid and compact a form as
possible. It is better if the main facts are gotten into the first two
lines of the story, which means usually the first twelve words as a
maximum. But the five essentials must also all of them be gotten into
the beginning of the story, either in the first sentence or in the
first paragraph, at all odds. Not only WHO did WHAT, but also WHEN and
WHERE and WHY or HOW. As a matter of fact, of course, the WHY or the
HOW may have been the most interesting thing about the story and will
then have been “featured” at the beginning of the story. “Having sworn
revenge for his dead sister, Tony Wallace yesterday shot Tom Kelly,”
or “By jumping from the fourteenth floor of the Hughes Building,
Charles Hight committed suicide this morning” are both of them possible
beginnings to news-stories, although neither of them begins with the
WHO or the WHAT. Two of the five essentials, however, are very rarely
used as features in a news-story. These are the WHERE and the WHEN. It
stands to reason that people are ordinarily not interested in either
WHEN a thing occurred or WHERE it happened until they know what it
is. Thus a news-story very rarely begins “On the corner of Third and
Ludlow,” or “Late last evening,” except in very primitive newspapers or
in a type of story to which reference will be made later.

It can happen that the place or the time are interesting enough in
themselves to warrant their being featured. “Exactly at midnight last
night the Senate voted in favor of light wines and beer,” is a feasible
type of feature. So is “At Death Crossing an A. B. & C. train claimed
another victim last night, raising the month’s total to eighteen.” But
unless there is something extremely unusual or noteworthy about the
place or the time these are not featured.

“The” and “A” are in some offices banned as opening words to a
news-story, and generally if the news can be stated without starting
off with these words, it is better to do so. But frequently it would
be awkward to start in any other way, and in such a case there need be
no hesitancy about using the words. “There are,” or “There is,” on the
other hand, are hardly ever excusable in opening a news-story. They use
up valuable space and valuable time and only retard the statement of
the vital facts which constitute the news.

Figures are never used to start off the lead nor are they ever used at
the beginning of any sentence in the story. Either some such word as
“About” or “Exactly” is used, or the number is written out in words.

“Another” is obviously a bad word, generally, with which to open a
news-story. What the people want is news, and ordinarily “another”
weakens this sense of the novel. In case of a series of fires or
murders or fatal accidents, however, the word may have a power of
adding to the forcefulness of the news, and so its use here would be
good.


                            THE FEATURE STORY

There is another type of story, which is built on a totally different
principle from what we have been considering. Its main characteristic
in starting out is that it does NOT give the five essentials, and
that it does not give first the most interesting fact of the story.
Manifestly it is not, then, a straight news story. People are not going
to read it for the important news that it contains. Because it plays up
some story which otherwise would hardly get into the papers at all, or
could only be given a very minor treatment and stuck off in some odd
corner of the paper, it is known in newspaper offices as a “feature
story.” It plays up some feature of an incident. It takes some small
happening of the day and gives it a treatment not unlike what we find
in short stories. And just as magazine fiction can use any one of a
million different openings, so there is no set rule for beginning a
newspaper “feature story.” We are setting out not to inform the reader,
but to give him pleasure of an artistic sort. It may be a pathetic
little story we have to tell, and it may sound odd to say that we set
out to give pleasure with it. But an artistic pleasure can, of course,
be gained from the deepest tragedy. So it is with the pathetic feature
story. Although, as a matter of fact, most feature stories are humorous
rather than pathetic.

Say that a reporter in going along the street overhears a little
girl playing school with her dolls. The youngster, not over six or
seven, uses some terms drawn from psycho-analysis. The reporter stops,
judiciously makes friends with her, gets her name, finds out where she
goes to school, and if possible ascertains where she got hold of the
big words. Of course, this story would not appeal to the average reader
of the average newspaper. It obviously has no straight news value. And
yet, properly handled, it would make a capital feature story for some
better types of newspapers.

Just as the former story would appeal to the child interest which was
mentioned earlier, so animal stories also make a good basis for feature
treatment. I have seen used an account of a dog who showed his delight
over being shorn of his heavy coat one hot June morning, and the
contrast with his dejection that evening, owing to the fact that he had
got a good heavy case of sunburn. Births of animals at the zoological
park can be treated in this way. Signs of intelligence in wild or
domestic animals are often treated in this fashion. The first birds in
the spring or a flight of wild ducks over a big city can be used. Signs
of intelligence or emotions in animals also make good feature stories.

All the interests mentioned earlier can, as a matter of fact, be
appealed to in this manner. Prominent men can be used. Stories about
them which are too insignificant for actual news treatment can be
utilized in this way. When the police-judge is suddenly called upon
to judge his own cook on a charge of drunkenness, the story has more
value as a feature than as straight news. When a well-known traffic
cop is fined on the same charge as the motor cyclist he had just
arrested--that of having glaring headlights--the story warrants more
than a straight news-lead.

Sports, hobbies, contests of all kinds, can all be drawn on for
feature stories. Frequently this type of story is used to bring out
the fact that we are all of us just human beings after all, liable to
make mistakes, with our little human frailties, ambitions, and prides.
“Human-interest stories” is the designation given to this sort of
story. Kindly, whimsical, this type of story helps frequently, in the
hands of a good writer, to set the tone of a city, just as editorials
do. The personality of a newspaper or a reporter can shine out here as
nowhere else, perhaps, and editors are always delighted when they can
find such a writer.


                                  STYLE

In all news-writing, the main thing is that it shall be easily
read, easily understood, and generally, one should come away from a
news-story without any remembrance of how it was written, the thing
should seem so simply done, so obviously constructed. The art that
hides itself is nowhere more needed than in this field where the artist
is a man at a typewriter pounding out sheet after sheet of copy, with
no time to linger over the choice of words or go back for careful
revision. The newspaper writer must have at his instant command all the
capabilities and powers within him. That is the reason why it is really
useless to talk at great length to a man who will, after all, have no
time for meditation on matters of style, on niceties of rhetoric. The
newspaper reporter is usually working under stress of great hurry and
often under keen excitement and for long stretches of time such as
would fray the nerves of any other type of writer or worker. He must
get certain principles--or “hints,” if you will,--into the back of his
head, where they will guide his work without too much burdening him,
and then forget everything but the main essentials. It is the purpose
of this section to give some of these bare essentials to good news
writing.

Beginning with the simplest element of language, WORDS, it may be
said immediately that aside from archaic terminology and words which
are dubbed “poetic” by the dictionary, the whole wide field of the
English vocabulary lies open to the newspaper writer, and no man need
try “writing down to his public.” Good writing in any field means being
clear and vivid and forceful, and these same three terms apply here as
elsewhere. A newspaper account should be written in such language that
if it is read aloud it will immediately be clear what the writer means.
If ever, in your writing, you come to a place where the conditions are
complex and will not straighten themselves out for you readily, so
that it seems impossible to state them clearly and vividly, try asking
yourself the question, “How would I say it if I were trying to tell
somebody about it?” That will frequently straighten the whole matter
out for you and give you instantly the point at which you wish to begin
the explanation. And it will generally make for good news-writing, as
it will generally make for clearness, vividness, and forcefulness.

“Use concrete terms” is another good bit of advice in the choice of
words, and applies from the simple matter of being specific up to the
matter of attempting artistically to depict the fine shades of a man’s
manner. “Six men” is better for news purposes than “A number of men,”
because it is more specific. “Harvard trampled over Yale yesterday” is
better news-writing than “Harvard won from Yale yesterday,” because it
is more vivid, it gives more of an image, it is thus more concrete.
When fire “shoots out across the street,” it gives us something to see,
and is vivid. “The first puff of flame” is good for the same reason.
In general, descriptive verbs are better than descriptive nouns,
however, for they are more active, and thus make for greater life in
a piece of writing. The difference between a good writer and a weak
and ineffective writer can, as a matter of fact, most often be traced
to this matter of the comparative number of nouns and verbs. Take a
news-story that grips you from beginning to end, say some account of a
fire or an accident. Count the number of verbs, in comparison with the
number of nouns and the total number of words used. Do the same for
some humdrum account that does not hold your attention. From the first
you felt that there was a difference, without knowing why. It will most
likely be found that the vivid writer, the man who could hold your
attention, has used a far higher percentage of verbs than the other.
Beginners very often break the back of every verb with an adverb, and
weaken every noun with an attendant adjective. The master of writing
shows himself to be such by the comparative absence of these two
parts of speech. He gets his effects by using colorful verbs. A good
exercise consists in watching the people one meets in daily life on the
sidewalks, and trying to find the one verb which will distinguish their
way of walking from that of everybody else you have seen that day.
There are a thousand and one different ways of saying “He went across
the street,” just as there are of stating the fact of “She said,” and
an excellent start toward a vivid style lies in these two suggestions.

In the matter of slang, good taste alone must dictate. In certain
types of stories, slang is permissible. Sports particularly have
indulged in this language. On the other hand there are stories where
it would be distinctly bad taste and out of place. In an obituary, for
instance, we rarely wish to see slang used. On the whole, it may be
safely said that a writer weakens his real command over language if
he allows himself to become dependent on slang for forcefulness. Most
reputable papers do not like slang in their general news-columns, as it
tends to lower the tone of their paper.

SENTENCES are generally shorter in newspapers than in ordinary
writing. Especially the first sentence must be short, in the estimation
of many editors, who like a “short lead.” This does not mean, however,
that a short choppy succession of bullet-like sentences is good
newspaper writing. As has been said before, the best news-writing is
that which attracts least attention to itself. So it is best to vary
the form of one’s sentences, both in length and structure. A whole
succession of very short or very long sentences would be monotonous,
and hence bad. Several sentences all starting out with the same word or
group of words would tire us. It is best to train one’s ear for this
sort of thing in writing and to try to be sensitive to this sort of
repetition so that if the typewriter begins to tap out automatically a
series of monotonous sentences, the subconscious will step in and sound
a warning. Another hint as to the forcefulness of sentences lies in the
fact that in general a sentence sounds stronger if it ends with a noun
or at least a verb. Not only is “a preposition bad to end a sentence
with,” but the same is also true of adverbs and, to a less degree, of
adjectives. Take some news-story that strikes you as being strongly
written, and look at the closing words of the sentences. The results
will bear me out, I am pretty sure.

In both sentences and paragraphs the most forceful arrangement is
generally that in which the principal elements are placed first.
Just as in the story as a whole it was seen that the lead gives the
principal facts, so also at the beginning of each paragraph there
should be some indication of the matter contained in it. In a fire
story, if we are dealing with the insurance involved, the paragraph
might open with the words: “Insurance covered most of the buildings, it
was learned today.” Or if the damages are being dealt with, they might
be organized under the paragraph beginning, “Total damages will amount
to $50,000.” The sentence can be treated in the same manner, thus
indicating to the reader its bearing on the story as a whole and making
for greater coherence.

For this reason, such expressions as “It is said,” or “Mr. Smith
remarked,” or “She declared,” are generally not placed either at the
beginning of a sentence or of a paragraph, but are “buried” in the
body of the sentence or the paragraph. The important position at the
beginning is thus reserved for really important matter. Situations may
arise where this general rule will best be neglected, but on the whole
it embodies a good principle of news-writing.

PARAGRAPHS as a whole are shorter in newspapers than elsewhere, and
this is one of the most marked differences encountered by the young
writer taking up newspaper work. Because of the narrowness of the
average newspaper column, allowing only about six or seven words to
the line, an ordinary paragraph taken from a novel or an essay would
take on a length that would discourage the reader. Newspapers differ
in this respect, but fifty words may be taken as the common length of
paragraphs in news-stories. This means that the thought is divided
into smaller sections, and the reporter must early begin to learn to
organize his material accordingly.


                          ORGANIZING THE STORY

The news-story as a whole is generally very simply organized. In the
lead, as has been said, are given all the principal facts of the story,
including in the first sentence or the first paragraph at latest the
five essentials. If there are other facts so interesting that they
ought to be brought before the reader in this first account, they may
be added, before the “body” of the story is reached. If the editor has
asked for a longer story than is made by these facts, the reporter
can go back to the beginning of the happening and give an account of
the whole thing, following the time sequence and being careful not to
repeat the material already incorporated in the lead.

In the story of a FIRE, for instance, the lead would include, besides
the most interesting fact in the whole story, the five essentials as
to WHAT burned, WHERE, WHEN, and HOW. If there were other interesting
circumstances, these would now be given, together with the total
damages, insurance, etc. In the body of the story would be given the
origin of the fire, who discovered the fire, who gave the alarm, what
companies responded, narrow escapes, other houses threatened, what was
saved, etc. If there are deaths in the fire, that fact will generally
be made the feature of the story and the same is true of rescues.

In the case of an ACCIDENT, the names of the dead or seriously wounded
will generally be featured, unless there are too many of them, in which
case the number itself would be placed first. In a story like this, the
names of the dead and wounded are often placed in a “box” at the head
of the story, with the addresses, ages, occupations, of the people so
that they can be quickly identified by the reading public. The five
essentials are given, with particular stress laid on the WHO, so that,
as has been pointed out, a full identification can readily be made by
those interested. If more is needed, a detailed account of the accident
can be given, with verbatim account from the people themselves if
possible, or from witnesses. The names of those who rendered assistance
are given, the attending physician, and to what hospital the wounded
were taken. This last is naturally very important, as friends or
relatives who have not previously heard of the accident will wish to
know this fact immediately.

In the account of a MEETING, after the lead, which will tell where
and when the meeting took place and for what purpose, besides bringing
out the most interesting feature of the whole story, will come the
chronological story of the meeting, with at least the main parts of
the various speeches. Direct quotation is generally most desirable
for at least a part of the speech. As was pointed out before, the
specific is what the public wants; and when the reader sees quotation
marks, he feels that he is getting real news from the meeting. For the
same reason, these direct quotations are placed at the beginning of a
paragraph. They tend to liven a story and should be placed where the
reader’s eye will easily light on them. Expressions such as “he said,”
“continued the speaker,” “demanded Mr. Jones,” etc., should be buried
in the body of the paragraph, as being less important.

SPORTS stories always give the results of a game first, with the WHY or
HOW element played up if possible. The five essentials are given, and
in the lead are also given any particularly interesting facts which the
reader would want to know first before going on with the rest of the
story. Then the account is taken up round by round, inning by inning,
quarter by quarter, etc., and a more or less detailed statement of each
play is given. Finally the line-up on each side is given, with names of
officials, etc.

Accounts of TRIALS are generally begun with the final decision, with
the five essentials, as in other stories, and with especial care
manifested once more in the matter of the WHO.

The reporter must be very careful in this matter of identification in
such cases, as in case he says it was Charles D. Mazuma of the X.Y.Z.
railroad office who is on trial, whereas in fact it was a Charles L.
Mazuma of the D.E.F. Interurban lines, he lays his paper open to heavy
damages. Direct or indirect quotation of evidence is frequently given,
in cases which particularly interest the public.

Another type of story in which the reporter must exercise great care
is the CRIME story. The five essentials are all most important here and
the most interesting element will be featured as usual. The HOW and the
WHY are always interesting in cases of this kind, or in case they are
unknown, statements of opinion may be quoted or given as the general
belief. In case of murder, the name of the victim will generally be
featured, although in case the murderer is a prominent figure in the
community, his name would very likely be put first. But the thing that
must be borne in mind all the time while writing a crime news-story
is the fact that the man has not yet been convicted of the crime, and
consequently we must be careful not to try him in the columns of our
newspaper, or convict him in our news-accounts. This means that we
must not say that So-and-So stole a watch, for that fact is not yet
proven before a court of law. If he has confessed to it, all right.
But otherwise all that we know is that he has been CHARGED with that
offense, and we must be careful to go no further. This is the reason
why you will find newspaper stories of crimes so hedged about with such
expressions as “it is alleged” and “is said to have.” Until he has been
tried, a man is an alleged thief only, and the reporter must remember
that fact, else his paper may find itself with a pretty libel suit on
its hands, with damages in the tens of thousands.

If the WHO is not known in a crime story, that very fact is
interesting, and possible clues and suspects may be given in the lead.
In the body of the story, an account may be given of the discovery of
the crime, the calling of the police, their investigations. Quotations
from police or victims may be given, or from people arrested in
connection with the affair. Witnesses of crimes may be quoted verbatim
or indirectly. It is not necessary to make the story more sensational
than it is. Here, as elsewhere, good reporting consists in the clear
statement of facts, set down in terms of specific observations. The
reporter should at all times remain what his name implies, one that
brings reports of things seen and heard. His own opinions should be
kept in the background at all times, and nowhere more so than in this
type of story.

The INTERVIEW, as a form of news writing, follows the same lines
as the other types of stories already considered, and is similarly
organized. The five essentials come in, although be it noticed that
the HOW generally entails a physical description of the man or woman
being interviewed. The feature is very frequently drawn from this
description, or from some noteworthy remark which is quoted directly.
The interviewer’s questions are rarely inserted, or if they are, they
are quoted indirectly. The body of the story consists very largely of
quotation, and the main problem here is generally to gain sufficient
variety to hold the interest. Such slight changes as are necessary to
put important words first in the sentence are allowable. If a prominent
banker says, “I think that labor is being unjustly hindered,” you are
perfectly justified in putting it in the more forceful form, “Labor
is, I think, being unjustly hindered.” So long as the thought of the
speaker is accurately represented, the reporter is within his bounds.

What is commonly called SOCIETY NEWS generally features the names of
the people involved. Guests, decorations, clothing, music, chaperons,
entertainment, speakers, toasts, etc., are given in the body of the
story. Insofar as amateur theatrical performances and local talent
concerts also come under the head of society, they will be treated in
much the same fashion. The most interesting feature will sometimes
lie in the scenery, treatment, subject, etc., which will tend most
effectively to distinguish this particular performance from other
recent entertainments of the same sort. At the end the program is often
simply pasted on the sheet of copy-paper, to be printed entire. In
announcing engagements and marriages the reporter must protect himself
against the quasi-jokers who sometimes send in fake items of this kind
about their acquaintances.

OBITUARIES almost invariably begin with the name of the person who
has died. The time and place of the death, with cause, are given in
the lead. The time and place of interment are given, as are also
the names of the surviving family. Following this commonly comes a
detailed account of the life of the deceased, sometimes set off from
the foregoing by a dash. In all big papers there are well-organized
files of the lives of men and women prominent in the community, state,
nation, or internationally, and on this “morgue” the reporter can draw
when he must write an obituary.


                          THE “FOLLOW-UP” STORY

There is another type of story, which differs from those already dealt
with, only in the fact that it “follows up” some detail or details of
a previous day’s story, and hence is known as a “follow-up” story.
If in the case of a robbery, the robber is caught on the second day,
that fact will very likely be featured in the story. On the first day
all the elements were given concerning the discovery of the robbery,
police investigation, amount taken, etc., and hence these will not now
be given in such detail. But a brief summary of them will be given in
the lead, so that readers who missed the first account will be able
to follow intelligently the details given in the present story. Even
in the case of a story which has received national attention, and has
been running in the papers for weeks, any new development in the affair
will be featured, but somewhere will also appear a short account of the
original story, even if it is no more than a clause tacked onto one of
the more important sentences. Otherwise the follow-up story differs in
no degree from other stories in the news-columns.

The art of developing follow-up features, however, is one of the
reporter’s most valuable gifts, it may be stated in passing, and
nowhere is it so important to have that “nose for news” of which
we hear so much talk. The best reporting is sometimes embodied in
these further developments which were not given in the original
story. Questions of WHO are involved in discovering the culprit of a
mysterious crime, just as the WHAT may develop into results and further
activities not anticipated at the first. In this same connection one
may obtain statements from authorities and prominent people as to the
meaning and significance of the occurrence, not generally realized.
WHERE may lead to news of the present whereabouts of offender,
victim, or loot. WHY or HOW may lead to the discovery of motive or
method which were unknown at the time of the first story. Thus, in
the first write-up of a fire, the extent of the conflagration would
be the feature. In a second story, perhaps the insurance, plans for
re-building, and a contemplated investigation would be featured,
whereas on the third day perhaps a suspicion of incendiarism would be
announced by the authorities, and on the fourth a suspect would be
arrested. These would all offer opportunities for follow-up stories,
each offering new features, and constituting practically a new story,
except for the fact that a brief review of the original facts of the
fire would be given in each story.


                          THE “RE-WRITE” STORY

Of a different type is the “re-write” story, of which the reporter
generally has many to do in the course of his writing. In its commonest
form, a clipping from another paper is re-written for “our” sheet,
and the attempt then is so to change its form without altering its
facts, that it may pass for an original account. This generally entails
the finding of a new feature in the facts of the story, and for this
purpose a firm grasp of the fundamental human interests, as already
outlined, is essential. In most stories there are more than one
possible feature, and it is the business of the re-write man to pick
out some other one of these than the one used by the first man, and
work it up into a story. Thus if in a clipping from another paper it
was announced that hereafter all dances in town charging admission must
pay a privilege tax of $2.50, the re-write man might feature the fact
that the tax must be paid in advance for each dance given. Sometimes
a clipping concerning a police-court trial will contain an indirect
statement as to motive or cause. This can be turned into a direct
statement and featured in the re-write. The re-write is generally
shorter than the story from which it is taken. It is used only because,
for some reason or other, the paper failed to cover the story in
question. This may have been because a rival paper got a “scoop,”
or because the story appeared in a morning paper, while “our” paper
appears in the afternoon. In the latter case it is possible that our
readers have already seen the story in the morning paper, but we want
to protect those of our readers who did not see it there, and offer
them at least some sort of an account of the story. Hence the re-write,
which, while not considered the highest form of the reporter’s art, is
still looked upon as legitimate.


                             PREPARING COPY

In the preparation of copy, it is the invariable rule nowadays that
the typewriter be used. In the rush of the modern newspaper office time
is too precious to be wasted over handwritten manuscript. But on the
other hand, the copy can be as marked up and changed as is necessary,
so long as it is easily legible to the linotype operator when it comes
into his hands to be set into type for printing. The whole standard of
neatness and legibility in newspaper copy is set by that fact.

Thus, copy is always written double-spaced, with good wide white spaces
between the lines. Paragraphs are indented an inch or an inch and a
half, so as to be easily recognized as such by the operator. If a comma
is changed to a period, or contrariwise, that fact is made perfectly
evident on the copy, with no doubt about it. A small cross or a ring
with a dot in it is frequently used for a period. If a small letter
is to be capitalized, three short horizontal lines are drawn beneath
it, and if a capital letter is to be changed into a small letter,
an oblique line is to be drawn through it. A word to be struck out
altogether is not erased. Reporters haven’t time to traffic with rubber
erasers. The work is obliterated with a soft black pencil, however, so
there is no doubt in the mind of the operator if it is to go in or not.
If a numeral, 9, for instance, is to be written out in words, “nine,” a
ring is drawn around it, and the linotype operator will understand. The
same is true of abbreviations.

Only one side of the paper is used, and at the top of the first
sheet, wide space is left for the headline to be written in. If there
is more than one sheet, they are generally all pasted together in one
long string, so as not to get separated, although when a reporter has
to write his story at different times this is impossible and he then
writes at the bottom of his story “MORE” and at the top of the next
sheet “ADD 2 ELECTION RETURNS.” At the end of his story he generally
puts some symbol to indicate the close. It is very frequently a “30”
with a ring around it, which is simply the sign of “the end” in the
telegraph code.


                             ON GETTING NEWS

A few hints on the gathering of news may not be amiss. It must be
understood from the beginning that the reporter is not actually
present when all of the things happen about which he must write. A
newspaper could hardly keep large enough a staff to be actually on
hand when every accident and every fire took place. There are many
happenings which take place according to SCHEDULE, and which reporters
can consequently “cover” by being present on time and witnessing
the event. Such are games, trials, ceremonies, social functions,
interviews, parades, etc. But there are also hosts of occurrences which
happen unexpectedly, and of which the newspaper office can perforce
know nothing in advance. Such are crimes, fires, accidents, etc. The
problem, then, limits itself to finding out in advance the schedule of
pre-arranged events, and the quick discovery of happenings which come
off without warning.

As to games, trials, parades, and most ceremonies, it is easy enough
to keep track of them, for their occurrence is so much a matter of
public interest that they are in some form or other advertised to
the people ahead of time. The same is true of marriages, for which
a license must be obtained from a public official and recorded in a
book open to the reporter. Deeds, mortgages, wills, and other legal
transactions have the same advantage in the eyes of the newspaper.
Social functions are a little harder, sometimes, to keep track of.
Hotels and restaurants will be glad to furnish the papers discreetly
with lists of coming events in their quarters, however, as it makes
for good publicity. Caterers and fancy bakers are generally not averse
to giving out the names and dates of coming events for which they have
orders. Many women call up and let the newspaper know of their affairs
in advance. In this connection it is well to state that all newspapers
like to have names in their columns, in abundance. Get names. Names
make for circulation. Names make for popularity with a paper. There
is not a human being that does not like to see his name in print.
Sometimes a person will call up the paper or see the editor on the
street and request that his or her name be kept out of the paper in
the future. But there is one thing that a person objects to, more than
seeing his name in the paper too much--and that, of course, is not to
see it in there at all. Wherever you can garner up a name, grab it and
use it in your news-writing. Write large in the tablets of your memory,
“GET NAMES.” There is only one thing more important in this respect,
and that is to get the names correctly. I said a moment ago that only
one thing was worse than not seeing your name in the paper at all, but
I believe I must almost take that back. If anything can be worse than
never appearing in the paper, it is to appear there, with one’s name
misspelled. Such a state of affairs, if habitually indulged in, can
ruin the public’s good feeling for a paper, and then it might as well
shut up shop.

As to the UNEXPECTED happenings of the day, which the reporter is
supposed to catch and depict for the readers, the case is not so
altogether different as the uninitiated would suppose. In the first
place, most of these happenings are reported to the police, and the
record of them is thus quickly made available to the press. If a
man is run over, the police are among the first to know of it, and
instantly the reporter is on the trail of the accident. Newspapers
keep in constant contact with the police for this very purpose. And
no better advice could be given to a young reporter than “to stand in
well with the police.” Policemen know their communities in certain
respects better than anyone else, and sometimes a tactful approach
to a big blue-coat will do more to put a cub-reporter on the trail
of a story than a couple of hours of other attempts. Fire-stations
and ambulance-stations are also good positions from which to keep in
contact with the news. Hospitals, undertakers, the coroner’s office,
ministers, prominent club-people, are all sources of news, which,
although they are organized for other purposes, offer admirable
places for the registration of facts which the public wants to know
about as news. Hotels, railways, markets, stock exchanges, wharves
and schools all furnish good sources of information. Doctors are
rarely good sources of news, and hospitals sometimes give trouble in
this matter. But on the whole, all the localities thus far mentioned
are such regular gatherers and storers-up of news for the papers,
that editors put them on what is known as a “run” or a “beat” to be
visited periodically and the news gathered from them. To the layman it
comes as a shock to find how little we do in this world that is not
docketed somewhere, more or less officially. But it is a godsend to the
reporter, who thus can perform the seemingly impossible task of being
everywhere at the same time, seeing everything in all parts of the city.

Much of the reporter’s time is spent in gaining information from
people by the general means of question and answer, and it is here
that he can use every ounce of tact and the knowledge of human nature
that he possesses. INTERVIEWING is the general name that can be given
to this part of his work, even though the word is generally reserved
for the more formal tasks of this nature. But there are some principles
that are useful in this matter, whether it be a washerwoman or a bank
president that is being questioned, and they can be set down here.
In the first place, it is almost universally a waste of time to ask
anybody “Have you any news?” Unless one has had technical or practical
training, a person usually does not know what constitutes news. Just as
he must aim at being specific in his writing, so also must the reporter
be prepared to ask specific questions of the people from whom he hopes
to gain information. “Who did so and so?” or “What did so and so do?”
or “When did so and so happen?” “Do you know where so and so is?” are
the type of definite questions that must be asked. Especially before
tackling a busy executive must the reporter have well in mind the exact
points which he wishes to clear up; but the same thing holds true in
all cases. The reporter organizes his questions, as it were, before he
begins to talk, knows what he wants to find out, and then goes for it.
Otherwise he will only too often find himself at last outside an office
door with no real advance made, no material gained for his story,
or he will find that some loquacious woman has led him far astray
into fields that have nothing to do with the story in point. Before
beginning to talk over the telephone, the reporter should have his
questions particularly well in mind, as he will be forced to carry on
a running fire of question and comment and at the same time be jotting
down notes. In face-to-face interviewing the reporter frequently has
difficulty in the matter of taking notes, as many people will take
fright when they see that their words are being taken down, and they
will then shut up like a clam. On the whole, it is perhaps better not
to produce a note-book in the presence of the person being interviewed,
but to jot down the notations immediately upon leaving. Over the
telephone it is always best, also, immediately to state that “this is
such-and-such a paper speaking.”


                              GENERAL HINTS

If the authorities still do not know the identity of a culprit, or a
corpse, etc., do not state that “an unknown man” is in question. The
proper expression is “an unidentified man.”

Similarly, do not state that a person has died “of heart failure,”--for
after all, that is what everybody eventually does. What is meant is
“heart trouble” or “heart disease.”

In the matter of capital letters, newspapers can be grouped under two
great heads, those that incline to fewer capitals, and those leaning
toward more capitals. They are then known respectively as “down” or
“up” sheets, and a moment’s inspection of a paper will generally
suffice to show in which group it belongs. Some papers even print
White House with lower case initials. When writing for a paper, the
reporter should immediately find out whether it is “up” or “down.” The
tendency today seems to be toward fewer capitals. Many papers do not
capitalize “Street” or “Avenue.” Often such titles as “President” or
“Secretary” are capitalized if they stand before a name, and not, if
they stand after it. In the same way, many papers do not capitalize
“College” or “University” if they stand last. Thus, such papers would
say “University of Wisconsin,” but “Oberlin college.”

Such matters are generally established in a newspaper office by
what is known as the “style-sheet,” and the reporter should quickly
familiarize himself with the style-sheet of his paper. Newspapers
vary, for instance, in their printing of numbers. In some sheets, all
numerals under one hundred are written out, and all above it are given
in figures. In other offices the rule is that all numbers above ten
are given in numerals. Also there are on nearly every paper certain
expressions or words which must not under any circumstances be used.
One editor will not permit “over” in the sense of “more than,” whereas
another editor will not tolerate the word “admirable” in his columns.
These matters are entirely a question of the personal opinion of those
in authority, and must therefore simply in each case be memorized and
complied with.

General rules of grammar must also, of course, be followed, and need
not be dwelt upon here. Attention may perhaps be drawn to the danger
of the “hanging participle,” however, as it is sometimes met with
in otherwise carefully written sheets. “Throwing on his brakes too
quickly, the car skidded before Jones could dodge the child, etc.,”
shows the error referred to. “Throwing” is the participle, and inasmuch
as it refers to Jones, his name should then have been made the subject
of the sentence. Another error frequently met with consists in joining
a plural subject and a singular verb or contrariwise. “Each of the
culverts are to be investigated” announced one of this morning’s
metropolitan papers. Of course “each” is a singular pronoun and should
have been followed by “is.” Any good handbook of rhetoric, such as
Wooley’s, will point out a host of such stumbling blocks.

In the matter of titles, it may be remarked that “Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
D. Jones” is considered better than “Mr. Thomas D. Jones and his wife.”
The abbreviation “Rev.” must not be used unless the given names are
used. Thus “The Rev. Thompson” is incorrect. Either “The Reverend Mr.
Thompson” or “The Rev. Henry B. Thompson” must be used. So also, “Mr.”
is generally omitted before a name if the given name is used. “Walter
F. Brown” and “Mr. Brown” are the proper forms.

Fight shy of trite expressions. Keep on the constant look-out in your
writing for any tendency to slip into hackneyed phrases whose edges
have become blunted. “Elegant,” “charming,” “well-known” ought in
general to be left as much alone as “the conventional black” or “doing
as well as could be expected.” A real interest in your work, a true
realization of the infinite variety and richness of the life going on
about you, and a desire to state in as vivid a form as possible all the
things you have to say will go far in saving you from this trouble.
Don’t fall into the way of doing “rubber-stamp” writing.

And now, as the very last hint of all comes perhaps the most important
statement:


                             ACCURACY FIRST

Let that motto be branded in your memory the deepest of all. Interest
was the key to all news-writing, we found at the beginning, and
certainly its importance cannot be over-stated. But in the name of
interest the matter of ACCURACY FIRST should never be lost sight of.
A reporter whose work cannot be trusted in this matter will lose out
sooner or later, just as a newspaper itself which cannot be trusted
will lose caste. It may seem innocent enough here and there to touch
up a story just a little bit to enhance its interest. Some editors,
even, may insist upon your injecting a little of this venial spice.
But the feeling is growing more and more strong that a reporter should
be exactly what his name implies, one that reports. After all, the
people are trusting him as the basis on which will be built that thing
most important to a democracy, public opinion. If public information
is polluted here at its very source, there is danger of contagion and
disease throughout the nation. The finest newspaper men of this and
other lands are striving to make imperative throughout their sheets the
motto

                            _ACCURACY FIRST_.




Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_. Obsolete spelling was not changed. Obvious printing errors,
such as missing letters or letters printed in the wrong order, were
corrected. Final stops missing at the end of sentences were added.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HINTS ON NEWS REPORTING ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

